Humm and Strumm Engine API Specification                    {#index}
========================================
![The Humm and Strumm Engine](logo-large.png)

# Overview                                                  {#overview}
The Humm and Strumm Game Engine is the game engine for the Humm and Strumm
Video Game.

The Humm and Strumm Project is a Free, Open-Source Project to create a
high-performance, concurrent 3D video game engine in modern C++. The Project
is composed of volunteers from around the world. By creating a foundation
that we hope to be competitive with modern proprietary video game engines and
by licensing it under a copyleft Free Software license, we hope to promote
Free Software gaming. We actively test the engine with popular compilers on
GNU/Linux, FreeBSD, and Microsoft Windows, and it should compile and run on
any POSIX system with X11 and OpenGL.

This is the complete API reference for the Humm and Strumm Game Engine.
The API reference contains the entire specification for the classes and the
methods of those classes for use in development.

# Using this API Reference                                  {#using}
This API reference was generated automatically from the source code of the
Humm and Strumm Game Engine using the [doxygen](http://doxygen.org/)
utility.  If you've used API documentation generated by the tool before,
this documentation is not much different.

At the top of the documentation is the navigation header and the title.  If
you click on the Humm and Strumm logo, you will be taken back to the
project's homepage.  Below the logo are the various sections of the
documentation.  The first section, the Main Page is where you are right now.

The second section contains links to pages that aren't class documentation,
but are important in the API reference.  Pages that are here might include a
todo list and tutorials for engine usage.

The third section contains links to the namespaces defined by the Humm and
Strumm Game Engine.  The subsystems of the engine are organized logically
into various namespaces, so here is good place to start to learn about a
specific subsystem.

The fourth section contains links to all the classes defined by the Humm and
Strumm Game Engine.  This is useful if you want to look up the documentation
of a specific class.

The fifth section contains links to all the files included in the Humm and
Strumm Game Engine.  Not all functionality of the engine is defined in the
classes, and some symbols are present here that are important.  Furthermore,
the code of the files is included, sans Doxygen comments, so you can see the
structure.

The final section contains links to all the directories included in the Humm
and Strumm Game Engine.  This is a good way to access various files'
documentation if you know where it is located in the source tree.
